README.md, before:

# math

Notes from Scott Druker's calculus classes. Written in a combination of Markdown, HTML, and LaTeX.

## :construction: TODOs
- [ ] Convert notes from both first and second semester
- [ ] Classify notes into sections outlined in this document
- [ ] Unify image designs (import from a semi-consistent source, such as Wikimedia)
- [ ] Make "Learning Targets" collapsed by default

## Units

### precalculus

- Functions and Graphs
- Polynomial, Power, and Rational Functions
- Exponential, Logistic, and Logarithmic Functions
- Trigonometric Functions
- Analytic Trigonometry
- Systems of Matrices
- Analytic Geometry: Two and Three Dimensions
- Discrete Mathematics
- Intro to Calculus

- [ ] [3D Space and Vectors](precalculus/3d-space-and-vectors.md)
- [ ] Absolute Value and Piecewise
- [ ] Angles and Arc Length
- [ ] Applications of Exponential, Logarithmic, and Logistic Functions
- [x] [Binomial Theorem](precalculus/binomial-theorem.md)
- [x] [Classification and Rotation of Conics](precalculus/classification-and-rotation-of-conics.md)
- [ ] Division and Finding All Zeros
- [ ] [Dot Product of Vectors in the Plane](precalculus/dot-product-of-vectors-in-the-plane.md)
- [x] [Eccentricity and Orbits](precalculus/eccentricity-and-orbits.md)
- [ ] Fundamental Trig Identities
- [ ] Graphing Rational Functions
- [ ] Graphs of Tangent and Reciprocal Functions
- [ ] Higher Degree Polynomials
- [ ] Intro to Functions
- [ ] [Intro to Polar Coordinates](precalculus/intro-to-polar-coordinates.md)
- [ ] Inverse Trig Functions
- [ ] Law of Sines and Cosines
- [ ] Linear and Quadratic Functions
- [ ] Logarithmic Functions
- [x] [Matrices](precalculus/matrices.md)
- [x] [More on Limits and using calculator for Numerical Derivatives and Integrals](precalculus/numerical-derivatives-and-integrals.md)
- [ ] Multiple Angle Identities
- [x] [Partial Fractions](precalculus/partial-fractions.md)
- [x] [Permutations and Combinations](precalculus/permutations-and-combinations.md)
- [ ] [Polar Equations of Conics](precalculus/polar-equations-of-conics.md)
- [ ] Power Functions
- [x] [Probability](precalculus/probability.md)
- [ ] Properties of Functions
- [x] [Prove Trig Identities](precalculus/prove-trig-identities.md)
- [ ] Right Triangle Trigonometry
- [x] [Sequences](precalculus/sequences.md)
- [ ] [Series](precalculus/series.md)
- [ ] Simplifying and Solving Rational Expressions
- [x] [Solving Exponential and Logs](precalculus/solving-exponential-and-logs.md)
- [x] [Solving Non Simple Exponential Functions](precalculus/solving-non-simple-exponential-functions.md)
- [ ] Solving Trig Equations
- [ ] Sum and Difference Identities
- [ ] Transformations of Functions
- [ ] [Vectors in the Plane](precalculus/vectors-in-the-plane.md)

### calculus
- Limits
  - The Tangent Problem
  - Calculating Integrals

## some sources

### LaTeX Syntax
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Spacing_in_math_mode
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Line_breaks_and_blank_spaces
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Fractions_and_Binomials
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Mathematical_expressions
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Integrals,_sums_and_limits
- https://oeis.org/wiki/List_of_LaTeX_mathematical_symbols#Arrows

### Images (todo)
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_product
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_vector
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exterior_algebra
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polar_coordinate_system
- https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Polar_coordinate_system
- https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Search&limit=500&offset=0&ns0=1&ns6=1&ns12=1&ns14=1&ns100=1&ns106=1&search=vector+force&advancedSearch-current={}

### Other helpful links
- https://courses.lumenlearning.com/precalctwo/chapter/finding-limits-numerical-and-graphical-approaches/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html
- https://philschatz.com/books/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49301.html
- https://openstax.org/subjects
- https://github.com/philschatz/statistics-book/blob/master/contents/m46973.md
- https://github.com/philschatz/precalculus-book
- https://philschatz.com/calculus-book/contents/m53477.html
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/
- https://philschatz.com/physics-book/
- https://philschatz.com/us-history-book/contents/m49968.html
- https://opentextbc.ca/calculusv1openstax/chapter/continuity/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html
- https://cnx.org/contents/_VPq4foj@11.10:vEOnJry_@5/Introduction-to-Functions
- https://cnx.org/contents/i4nRcikn@6.47:H2TLb2-S@4/Introduction
- https://cnx.org/contents/HTmjSAcf@5.21:rrzms6rP@6/Introduction
- https://cnx.org/contents/oxzXkyFi@5.30:72YaCFgv@5/Introduction
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html

Commit message:

Create Definition of the Derivative

README.md, after:

# math

Notes from Scott Druker's calculus classes. Written in a combination of Markdown, HTML, and LaTeX.

## :construction: TODOs
- [ ] Convert notes from both first and second semester
- [ ] Classify notes into sections outlined in this document
- [ ] Unify image designs (import from a semi-consistent source, such as Wikimedia)
- [ ] Make "Learning Targets" collapsed by default

## Units

### precalculus

- Functions and Graphs
- Polynomial, Power, and Rational Functions
- Exponential, Logistic, and Logarithmic Functions
- Trigonometric Functions
- Analytic Trigonometry
- Systems of Matrices
- Analytic Geometry: Two and Three Dimensions
- Discrete Mathematics
- Intro to Calculus

- [ ] [3D Space and Vectors](precalculus/3d-space-and-vectors.md)
- [ ] Absolute Value and Piecewise
- [ ] Angles and Arc Length
- [ ] Applications of Exponential, Logarithmic, and Logistic Functions
- [x] [Binomial Theorem](precalculus/binomial-theorem.md)
- [x] [Classification and Rotation of Conics](precalculus/classification-and-rotation-of-conics.md)
- [ ] Division and Finding All Zeros
- [ ] [Dot Product of Vectors in the Plane](precalculus/dot-product-of-vectors-in-the-plane.md)
- [x] [Eccentricity and Orbits](precalculus/eccentricity-and-orbits.md)
- [ ] Fundamental Trig Identities
- [ ] Graphing Rational Functions
- [ ] Graphs of Tangent and Reciprocal Functions
- [ ] Higher Degree Polynomials
- [ ] Intro to Functions
- [ ] [Intro to Polar Coordinates](precalculus/intro-to-polar-coordinates.md)
- [ ] Inverse Trig Functions
- [ ] Law of Sines and Cosines
- [ ] Linear and Quadratic Functions
- [ ] Logarithmic Functions
- [x] [Matrices](precalculus/matrices.md)
- [x] [More on Limits and using calculator for Numerical Derivatives and Integrals](precalculus/numerical-derivatives-and-integrals.md)
- [ ] Multiple Angle Identities
- [x] [Partial Fractions](precalculus/partial-fractions.md)
- [x] [Permutations and Combinations](precalculus/permutations-and-combinations.md)
- [ ] [Polar Equations of Conics](precalculus/polar-equations-of-conics.md)
- [ ] Power Functions
- [x] [Probability](precalculus/probability.md)
- [ ] Properties of Functions
- [x] [Prove Trig Identities](precalculus/prove-trig-identities.md)
- [ ] Right Triangle Trigonometry
- [x] [Sequences](precalculus/sequences.md)
- [ ] [Series](precalculus/series.md)
- [ ] Simplifying and Solving Rational Expressions
- [x] [Solving Exponential and Logs](precalculus/solving-exponential-and-logs.md)
- [x] [Solving Non Simple Exponential Functions](precalculus/solving-non-simple-exponential-functions.md)
- [ ] Solving Trig Equations
- [ ] Sum and Difference Identities
- [ ] Transformations of Functions
- [ ] [Vectors in the Plane](precalculus/vectors-in-the-plane.md)

### calculus
- Intro to Calculus / Calculating Limits
    - [ ] [Limits](calculus/limits.md)
    - [ ] [Definition of the Derivative](calculus/definition-of-the-derivative.md)

## some sources

### LaTeX Syntax
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Spacing_in_math_mode
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Line_breaks_and_blank_spaces
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Fractions_and_Binomials
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Mathematical_expressions
- https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/Integrals,_sums_and_limits
- https://oeis.org/wiki/List_of_LaTeX_mathematical_symbols#Arrows

### Images (todo)
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_product
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_vector
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exterior_algebra
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-dimensional_space
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polar_coordinate_system
- https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Polar_coordinate_system
- https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Search&limit=500&offset=0&ns0=1&ns6=1&ns12=1&ns14=1&ns100=1&ns106=1&search=vector+force&advancedSearch-current={}

### Other helpful links
- https://courses.lumenlearning.com/precalctwo/chapter/finding-limits-numerical-and-graphical-approaches/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html
- https://philschatz.com/books/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49301.html
- https://openstax.org/subjects
- https://github.com/philschatz/statistics-book/blob/master/contents/m46973.md
- https://github.com/philschatz/precalculus-book
- https://philschatz.com/calculus-book/contents/m53477.html
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/
- https://philschatz.com/physics-book/
- https://philschatz.com/us-history-book/contents/m49968.html
- https://opentextbc.ca/calculusv1openstax/chapter/continuity/
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html
- https://cnx.org/contents/_VPq4foj@11.10:vEOnJry_@5/Introduction-to-Functions
- https://cnx.org/contents/i4nRcikn@6.47:H2TLb2-S@4/Introduction
- https://cnx.org/contents/HTmjSAcf@5.21:rrzms6rP@6/Introduction
- https://cnx.org/contents/oxzXkyFi@5.30:72YaCFgv@5/Introduction
- https://philschatz.com/precalculus-book/contents/m49452.html
